index.md, before:

---
title: Home
---

## Welcome to ConstraintLayout.com

![Logo](/assets/images/Icon1_128_blue.png){:style="float: left; margin-right: 16px"}

ConstraintLayout.com is a community sourced documentation hub for Android's ConstraintLayout.

Currently there's a relatively small amount here, but over the coming months we hope to build up a comprehensive documentation resource
for all things ConstraintLayout.

Currently there the following categories of information available:




### Markdown

Markdown is a lightweight and easy-to-use syntax for styling your writing. It includes conventions for

```markdown
Syntax highlighted code block

# Header 1
## Header 2
### Header 3

- Bulleted
- List

1. Numbered
2. List

**Bold** and _Italic_ and `Code` text

[Link](url) and ![Image](src)
```

For more details see [GitHub Flavored Markdown](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/).

### Jekyll Themes

Your Pages site will use the layout and styles from the Jekyll theme you have selected in your [repository settings](https://github.com/StylingAndroid/sandbox/settings). The name of this theme is saved in the Jekyll `_config.yml` configuration file.

### Support or Contact

Having trouble with Pages? Check out our [documentation](https://help.github.com/categories/github-pages-basics/) or [contact support](https://github.com/contact) and we’ll help you sort it out.

Taylor's icon designs:

Number|white|blue
------|-----|-----
1|![Icon 1](/assets/images/Icon1_512.png)|![Icon 1](/assets/images/Icon1_512_blue.png)
2|![Icon 2](/assets/images/Icon2_512.png)|![Icon 2](/assets/images/Icon2_512_blue.png)
3|![Icon 3](/assets/images/Icon3_512.png)|![Icon 3](/assets/images/Icon3_512_blue.png)

Commit message:

Adds navigation to the home index page

index.md, after:

---
title: Home
---

## Welcome to ConstraintLayout.com

![Logo](/assets/images/Icon1_128_blue.png){:style="float: left; margin-right: 16px"}

ConstraintLayout.com is a community sourced documentation hub for Android's ConstraintLayout.

Currently there's a relatively small amount here, but over the coming months we hope to build up a comprehensive documentation resource
for all things ConstraintLayout.

Currently there is the following categories of information available:

{% include navigation.html context="/" %}


### Markdown

Markdown is a lightweight and easy-to-use syntax for styling your writing. It includes conventions for

```markdown
Syntax highlighted code block

# Header 1
## Header 2
### Header 3

- Bulleted
- List

1. Numbered
2. List

**Bold** and _Italic_ and `Code` text

[Link](url) and ![Image](src)
```

For more details see [GitHub Flavored Markdown](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/).

### Jekyll Themes

Your Pages site will use the layout and styles from the Jekyll theme you have selected in your [repository settings](https://github.com/StylingAndroid/sandbox/settings). The name of this theme is saved in the Jekyll `_config.yml` configuration file.

### Support or Contact

Having trouble with Pages? Check out our [documentation](https://help.github.com/categories/github-pages-basics/) or [contact support](https://github.com/contact) and we’ll help you sort it out.

Taylor's icon designs:

Number|white|blue
------|-----|-----
1|![Icon 1](/assets/images/Icon1_512.png)|![Icon 1](/assets/images/Icon1_512_blue.png)
2|![Icon 2](/assets/images/Icon2_512.png)|![Icon 2](/assets/images/Icon2_512_blue.png)
3|![Icon 3](/assets/images/Icon3_512.png)|![Icon 3](/assets/images/Icon3_512_blue.png)
